docs/pages/desktop-access/reference.mdx, before:

---
title: Desktop Access reference
description: Teleport Desktop Access configuration and CLI reference.
---

<Admonition
  type="warning"
  title="Warning"
>
  Desktop Access is currently in Preview. Do not use this feature for any critical
  infrastructure and keep a backup option for accessing your desktop hosts.
</Admonition>

# Configuration and CLI reference

## teleport.yaml

`teleport.yaml` fields related to Desktop Access:

{/* NOTE to devs: If you update this reference yaml, you likely want to mirror the changes in docs/pages/setup/reference/config.mdx */}

```yaml
# Main service responsible for Desktop Access.
#
# You can have multiple Desktop Access services in your cluster (but not in the
# same teleport.yaml), connected to the same or different Active Directory
# domains.
windows_desktop_service:
  enabled: yes
  # This is the address that windows_desktop_service will listen on.
  listen_addr: "localhost:3028"
  # (optional) This is the address that windows_desktop_service will advertise
  # to the rest of Teleport for incoming connections. Only proxy_service should
  # connect to windows_desktop_service, users connect to the proxy's web UI
  # instead.
  public_addr: "desktop-access.example.com:3028"
  ldap:
    # Address of the Domain Controller for LDAP connections. Usually, this
    # address will use port 389, like: domain-controller.example.com:389.
    addr:     '$LDAP_SERVER_ADDRESS'
    # Active Directory domain name you are connecting to.
    domain:   '$LDAP_DOMAIN_NAME'
    # LDAP username for authentication. This username must include the domain
    # NetBIOS name.
    #
    # For example, if your domain is "example.com", the NetBIOS name for it is
    # likely "EXAMPLE". When connecting as the "Administrator" user, you should
    # use the format: "EXAMPLE\Administrator".
    username: '$LDAP_USERNAME'
    # Plain text file containing the LDAP password for authentication.
    # This is usually the same password you use to login to the Domain Controller.
    password_file: /var/lib/ldap-pass
  # (optional) settings for enabling automatic desktop discovery via LDAP
  discovery:
    # The wildcard '*' character tells Teleport to discover all the hosts in
    # the Active Directory Domain. To refine the search, specify a custom DN.
    # To disable automatic discovery, leave this field blank.
    base_dn: '*'
    # (optional) LDAP filters for further customizing the LDAP search.
    # See https://ldap.com/ldap-filters for details on LDAP filter syntax.
    filters:
    - '(location=Oakland)'
    - '(!(primaryGroupID=516))' # exclude domain controllers
  # Rules for applying labels to Windows hosts based on regular expressions
  # matched against the host name. If multiple rules match, the desktop will
  # get the union of all matching labels.
  host_labels:
  - match: '^.*\.dev\.example\.com$'
    labels:
      environment: dev
  - match: '^.*\.prod\.example\.com$'
    labels:
      environment: prod
```

This `host_labels` configuration would apply the `environment: dev` label to a
Windows desktop named `test.dev.example.com`, and the `environment: prod` label
to a desktop named `desktop.prod.example.com`.

## RBAC

Teleport's Role-based access control (RBAC) allows administrators to set up
granular access policies for Windows desktops connected to Teleport.

Teleport's "role" resource provides the following instruments for controlling
desktop access:

```yaml
kind: role
version: v4
metadata:
  name: developer
spec:
  allow:
    # Label selectors for desktops this role has access to.
    # See above for how labels are applied to desktops.
    windows_desktop_labels:
      environment: ["dev", "stage"]

    # Windows user accounts this role can connect as.
    windows_desktop_logins: ["Administrator", "{{internal.windows_logins}}"]
```

It is possible to use wildcards (`"*"`) to match all desktop labels.

Like with SSH access, the `windows_desktop_logins` field supports the special `{{internal.windows_logins}}` variable
for local users which will map to any logins that are supplied when the user is created with
`tctl users add alice --windows-logins=Administrator,DBUser`.

For new clusters, the `"access"` role will have `windows_desktop_logins: ["{{internal.windows_logins}}"]` set by default.

## CLI

CLI commands related to Desktop Access.

Generate a join token for Desktop Access service:

```sh
$ tctl nodes add --roles=WindowsDesktop
```

List registered Desktop Access services:

```sh
$ tctl get windows_desktop_service
```

List registered Windows hosts in the domain:

```sh
$ tctl get windows_desktop
```

Commit message:

Recommend a highly available LDAP endpoint.
Early versions of our docs were worded in such a way that suggested
pointing Teleport at a single domain controller, which would result
in issues if a DC goes down for maintenance or due to error.

We also used to make insecure LDAP connections on port 389, and then
upgrade them using a STARTTLS operation. This is no longer supported.

Fix both of these issues by recommending a highly available LDAP
server and removing references to port 389.

docs/pages/desktop-access/reference.mdx, after:

---
title: Desktop Access reference
description: Teleport Desktop Access configuration and CLI reference.
---

<Admonition
  type="warning"
  title="Warning"
>
  Desktop Access is currently in Preview. Do not use this feature for any critical
  infrastructure and keep a backup option for accessing your desktop hosts.
</Admonition>

# Configuration and CLI reference

## teleport.yaml

`teleport.yaml` fields related to Desktop Access:

{/* NOTE to devs: If you update this reference yaml, you likely want to mirror the changes in docs/pages/setup/reference/config.mdx */}

```yaml
# Main service responsible for Desktop Access.
#
# You can have multiple Desktop Access services in your cluster (but not in the
# same teleport.yaml), connected to the same or different Active Directory
# domains.
windows_desktop_service:
  enabled: yes
  # This is the address that windows_desktop_service will listen on.
  listen_addr: "localhost:3028"
  # (optional) This is the address that windows_desktop_service will advertise
  # to the rest of Teleport for incoming connections. Only proxy_service should
  # connect to windows_desktop_service, users connect to the proxy's web UI
  # instead.
  public_addr: "desktop-access.example.com:3028"
  ldap:
    # Address of the LDAP server for secure LDAP connections.
    # Usually, this address will use port 636, like: ldap.example.com:636.
    # For best results, this address should point to a highly-available
    # endpoint (a load balancer, VIP, or round-robin DNS) rather than
    # a single domain controller.
    addr:     '$LDAP_SERVER_ADDRESS'
    # Active Directory domain name you are connecting to.
    domain:   '$LDAP_DOMAIN_NAME'
    # LDAP username for authentication. This username must include the domain
    # NetBIOS name.
    #
    # For example, if your domain is "example.com", the NetBIOS name for it is
    # likely "EXAMPLE". When connecting as the "Administrator" user, you should
    # use the format: "EXAMPLE\Administrator".
    username: '$LDAP_USERNAME'
    # Plain text file containing the LDAP password for authentication.
    # This is usually the same password you use to login to the Domain Controller.
    password_file: /var/lib/ldap-pass
  # (optional) settings for enabling automatic desktop discovery via LDAP
  discovery:
    # The wildcard '*' character tells Teleport to discover all the hosts in
    # the Active Directory Domain. To refine the search, specify a custom DN.
    # To disable automatic discovery, leave this field blank.
    base_dn: '*'
    # (optional) LDAP filters for further customizing the LDAP search.
    # See https://ldap.com/ldap-filters for details on LDAP filter syntax.
    filters:
    - '(location=Oakland)'
    - '(!(primaryGroupID=516))' # exclude domain controllers
  # Rules for applying labels to Windows hosts based on regular expressions
  # matched against the host name. If multiple rules match, the desktop will
  # get the union of all matching labels.
  host_labels:
  - match: '^.*\.dev\.example\.com$'
    labels:
      environment: dev
  - match: '^.*\.prod\.example\.com$'
    labels:
      environment: prod
```

This `host_labels` configuration would apply the `environment: dev` label to a
Windows desktop named `test.dev.example.com`, and the `environment: prod` label
to a desktop named `desktop.prod.example.com`.

## RBAC

Teleport's Role-based access control (RBAC) allows administrators to set up
granular access policies for Windows desktops connected to Teleport.

Teleport's "role" resource provides the following instruments for controlling
desktop access:

```yaml
kind: role
version: v4
metadata:
  name: developer
spec:
  allow:
    # Label selectors for desktops this role has access to.
    # See above for how labels are applied to desktops.
    windows_desktop_labels:
      environment: ["dev", "stage"]

    # Windows user accounts this role can connect as.
    windows_desktop_logins: ["Administrator", "{{internal.windows_logins}}"]
```

It is possible to use wildcards (`"*"`) to match all desktop labels.

Like with SSH access, the `windows_desktop_logins` field supports the special `{{internal.windows_logins}}` variable
for local users which will map to any logins that are supplied when the user is created with
`tctl users add alice --windows-logins=Administrator,DBUser`.

For new clusters, the `"access"` role will have `windows_desktop_logins: ["{{internal.windows_logins}}"]` set by default.

## CLI

CLI commands related to Desktop Access.

Generate a join token for Desktop Access service:

```sh
$ tctl nodes add --roles=WindowsDesktop
```

List registered Desktop Access services:

```sh
$ tctl get windows_desktop_service
```

List registered Windows hosts in the domain:

```sh
$ tctl get windows_desktop
```
